


***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer:Programming language is a way for developers to communicate with computers

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer:JRE: java runtime environment
       JAVA: loader
       JAVAC:compiler
       JAR:archiver
       JAVADOC:a documentation generator

What is an IDE?
Answer:IDE is a software application that helps programmers develop software code efficiently.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer:Intellij, Eclipse, BleuJ

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:

What is a class?
Answer: Class is a bleuprint which describes methods,constructors and functions

What is an object?
Answer:object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of a Java project?
Answer:the main methode is the entry point in Java project.

Why is the main() method static?
Answer:the main methode is static in order for JVM to load the class into memory.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer:Object class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer:

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer:Abstract classes can have methods with implementation while interface can not have any
        methods with implementation.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:NO we can't as interface is a complete abstract class


What is Access Modifier?

Answer: Access modifier are keywords that we can use to control the visibility of the field.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer: A package is a folder in a file directory.
        Lang package is the one that is imported by default.

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:API is a software components bundled with JDK.
       so far used public, private,final.

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer: Yes java support multiple inheritance to implement more than one interface.

What is method overloading? List all of the different ways to overload.
Answer:method overloading means having two or more methods in class with the same name and different parameters.
       a method can be overloaded by changing the number of parameters
       and by changing the data type of parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer:exceptions means an error during the execution of the program.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:In java final is constant, we can not change the value or override if it’s final.
       The final keyword is used to restrict the user.

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:final is an access modifier, finalize is the methode of object and finally is the block in exception handling.


What is a constructor?
Answer: a constructor is used to create the instance of the class.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer: Yes.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer:the default constructor

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:"this" refers to the current object in method
        we use it when the class attributes and parameters have the same name.

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer:"super" refers to superclass objects.
        we use it to eliminate the confusion between the superclasses and subclasses that have the same name.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer:JAVA VIRTUAL MACHINE.

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer:yes is independent.

What version of Java are you using?
Answer:

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:java archive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:the difference is that JDK exist physically while JVM is virtual not physically exist.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:JVM is a subclass of JRE that decodes the bytecode into a machine language
       and JRE identifies all the helpful class libraries needed for execution.

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer:compile-time is the period that the programming code is converted into machine code
       while run-time is the period when actually the program is running.

What is heap?
Answer: heap is the area of memory.

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer:java manages its memory by using an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector.


What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:

What is Singleton class?
Answer:is a class that have only one object.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:While loops are executed while a condition is true. The condition is evaluated BEFORE each execution.
       do.. While loops are executed at least once. The condition is evaluated AFTER each execution.

What is Enum?
Answer:Enum is the short form of enumeration. enums are simply constant values that are highly unlikely to change.


What is Iterator?
Answer:is an object used to cycle through arguments.

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:integer takes more memory than an int because the integer allows conversion to
       float,double,long and short while int doesn't

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:Strings are immutable in java to protect them from hackers so theirs values can't be changed.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:is a process of calling sequence of constructors.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer:the difference is that Serial collector uses one thread to execute while
       parallel garbage collector uses multiples threads.

What does JIT stands for?
Answer:just in time

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:No

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:the difference is that stack is used to store the order of methode execution and local variable
while the heap stores the objects.

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer: reflection a function in the java its useful because it allows us to inspect and modify and transform
        a java program without affecting the existing code.

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:

What is a Framework?
Answer:

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer: